The interview round is conducted to test your speaking skills, presence of mind and to know more about your personality.

Here are a few things to keep in mind while giving an interview

Honesty

Be honest. Trying to give out a false impression is going to be counterproductive because they will question you further and if you’re lying, it’ll eventually show. Answer to the best of your ability, and if you don’t know an answer just agree.

Confidence

Be confident while answering. Have a confident body posture. (Even if you don't know the answer two questions in a row, don’t falter. It shows that you are optimistic about your abilities.) But keep in mind not to come off as arrogant. Be confident, but humble.

The major questions in the interview will be: -

About your personality

“Tell me about yourself”

“Why do you want to join this course?”

“What are your strengths and weaknesses?”

Academics

They will surely ask a few questions on your academics till class 12.

Extracurriculars

Be it dance, drama, karate or Olympiads, make sure you talk about your interests outside academics. Do thorough research on the field before you sit for the interview.

-Read the newspaper every day. Do further reading about the events you find relevant and exciting, they may ask you to talk about the news that caught your attention recently.

- Find out about the history and current situation of the city you live in and belong to.

- Know the chief ministers, cabinet ministers and other important people and positions

Last but not least, be mentally prepared for an extempore. In my interview, I was asked to speak about ‘The grass is always greener on the other side’ for a minute.

Be well prepared for standard questions like, ‘Tell me about yourself’,’ Why do you want to join this course?’ etc. Remember to be honest while answering these questions. As I mentioned earlier, even if you’re not able to answer a question, don’t panic, and don’t bluff. Acknowledge that you don’t know the answer and that you’ll try to find out about it.

Don’t get too nervous before the interview, stay calm and have a clear head.

May the odds be ever in your favour ;)	 